Redesign of telemetry/observability docu (#16336)
kyma-project/kyma: docs/05-technical-reference/00-custom-resources/telemetry-01-logpipeline.md

---
title: Telemetry - LogPipeline
---

The `logpipeline.telemetry.kyma-project.io` CustomResourceDefinition (CRD) is a detailed description of the kind of data and the format used to filter and ship application logs in Kyma. To get the up-to-date CRD and show the output in the YAML format, run this command:

```bash
kubectl get crd logpipeline.telemetry.kyma-project.io -o yaml
```

## Sample custom resource

> The following LogPipeline object defines a 

Reviewer: The sentence is incomplete.

> The following LogPipeline object defines a 

Author: ```suggestion
The following LogPipeline object defines a pipeline integrating via the HTTP/JSON based output using basic authentication, excluding application logs emitted by istio-proxy containers.
```

status:
  conditions:
  - lastTransitionTime: "2022-11-25T12:38:36Z"
    reason: FluentBitDaemonSetRestarted
    type: Pending
  - lastTransitionTime: "2022-11-25T12:39:26Z"
    reason: FluentBitDaemonSetRestartCompleted
    type: Running
```

For further LogPipeline examples, see the [samples](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/blob/main/components/telemetry-operator/config/samples) directory.

## Custom resource parameters

### spec attribute

For details, see the [LogPipeline specification file](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/blob/main/components/telemetry-operator/apis/telemetry/v1alpha1/logpipeline_types.go).

| Parameter | Type | Description |
|---|---|---|
| input | object | Definition where to collect logs, including selector mechanisms. |
| input.application | object | Input type for application logs collection. |
| input.application.namespaces | object | Provides selectors for Namespaces. Selectors are mutually exclusive. |
| input.application.namespaces.include | []string | List of Namespaces from which logs are collected. |
| input.application.namespaces.exclude | []string | List of Namespaces to exclude during log collection from all Namespaces. |

> | input.application.namespaces.system | boolean | Set to `true` if collecting from all Namespaces should include system Namespaces as well. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| input.application.namespaces.system | boolean | Set to `true` if collecting from all Namespaces must also include system Namespaces. |
```

| input.application.containers | []string | Provides selectors for containers. Selectors are mutually exclusive. |
| input.application.containers.include | []string | List of containers to collect from. |
| input.application.containers.exclude | []string | List of containers to exclude. |
| input.application.keepAnnotations | boolean | Indicates whether to keep all Kubernetes annotations. Default is `false`. |
| input.application.dropLabels | boolean | Indicates whether to drop all Kubernetes labels. Default is `false`. |
| filters | []object | List of [Fluent Bit filters](https://docs.fluentbit.io/manual/pipeline/filters) to apply to the logs processed by the pipeline. Filters are executed in sequence, as defined. They are executed before logs are buffered, and with that, are not executed on retries.|

> | filters[].custom | string | Filter definition in the Fluent Bit syntax. Note: If you use a `custom` output, you put the LogPipeline in [unsupported mode](./../../01-overview/main-areas/telemetry/telemetry-02-logs.md#unsupported-mode).|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| filters[].custom | string | Filter definition in the Fluent Bit syntax. **Note:** If you use a `custom` output, you put the LogPipeline in [unsupported mode](./../../01-overview/main-areas/telemetry/telemetry-02-logs.md#unsupported-mode).|
```

| output | object | [Fluent Bit output](https://docs.fluentbit.io/manual/pipeline/outputs) where you want to push the logs. Only one output can be specified. |

> | output.grafana-loki | object | [Fluent Bit grafana-loki output](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/v2.2.x/clients/fluentbit/). Note: This output is considered legacy and is only provided for backwards compatibility with the [deprecated](https://kyma-project.io/blog/2022/11/2/loki-deprecation/) in-cluster Loki instance. It might not be compatible with latest Loki versions. For integration with a custom Loki installation use the `custom` output with name `loki` instead, see also [this tutorial](https://github.com/kyma-project/examples/tree/main/loki). |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| output.grafana-loki | object | [Fluent Bit grafana-loki output](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/v2.2.x/clients/fluentbit/). **Note:** This output is considered legacy and is only provided for backward compatibility with the [deprecated](https://kyma-project.io/blog/2022/11/2/loki-deprecation/) in-cluster Loki instance. It might not be compatible with the latest Loki versions. For integration with a custom Loki installation use the `custom` output with the name `loki` instead, see also [this tutorial](https://github.com/kyma-project/examples/tree/main/loki). |
```

| variables[].name | string | Name of the variable to map. |
| variables[].valueFrom.secretKeyRef | object | Reference to a key in a Secret. You must provide `name` and `namespace` of the Secret, as well as the name of the `key`.|
| files | []object | A list of text snippets that are mounted as files to Fluent Bit, so that they are available for reference in filters and outputs. The mounted snippet is available under the `/files` folder.|
| files[].name | string | The file name under which the snippet is mounted. The resulting path will be `/files/<name>`. |
| files[].content | string | The actual text snippet to mount as file.|

### status attribute

For details, see the [LogPipeline specification file](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/blob/main/components/telemetry-operator/apis/telemetry/v1alpha1/logpipeline_types.go).

| Parameter | Type | Description |
|---|---|---|
| conditions | []object | An array of conditions describing the status of the pipeline.
| conditions[].lastTransitionTime | []object | An array of conditions describing the status of the pipeline.
| conditions[].reason | []object | An array of conditions describing the status of the pipeline.

> | conditions[].type | enum | The possible transition types are:<br>- Running: The instance is ready and usable.<br>- Pending: The pipeline is being activated. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| conditions[].type | enum | The possible transition types are:<br>- `Running`: The instance is ready and usable.<br>- `Pending`: The pipeline is being activated. |
```
